subtle valves come in little bags like
this you can buy them at Home Depot
Lowe's any other hardware supply store
they're used to divert small amounts of
water for applications like water supply
for the refrigerator ice maker in it and
for a humidifier
for the refrigerator you need to take
the water from the cold water supply
however for the humidifier depending on
the specifics you may want to take it
from the hot water supply if you are
using a standard humidifier heat pump
system then you definitely need to
attach to the hot water supply in this
house that wasn't done and the water is
being taken from the cold water supply
which reduces the humidifiers efficiency
so we're going to rectify it today by
replacing the shuttle valve taking out
the old one putting in the new one most
types of pipes like C PVC PVC and copper
will take saddle valves saddle valves
can come in different sizes for the
purposes that we're using them for for
refrigerators and for humidifiers
quarter-inch saddle valve are the most
common ones but there are other sizes
that are available for your specific
needs
procedure for installation is the same
opening the envelope you'll see all of
these parts along with a set of
instructions the instructions
unfortunately only talk about flaring
the pipe and attaching it to the saddle
valve doesn't tell you how to assemble
the saddle valve if you've done it
before it is incredibly easy but if
you're a first-timer it may be a bit
intimidating so we're going to show you
how to do that we don't need to flare
the pipe here because we're just going
to be taking a pipe that's already been
blurred from the old saddle valve to the
new one from the cold water to the hot
water for a humidifier just move the
pipe that's already there and we're
going to show you what is not in the
instructions the sample the settle melt
like it's laid out here little rubber
piece fits the channel of the pipe hug
the pipe the the actual saddle valve is
going to get inserted into the saddle
and twist it on here we're going to use
the adjustable range
to tighten the top of the saddle valve
to prevent it from wobbling when we
insert it into the pipe we don't want it
to leak so the smaller the wobble the
less of a chance of that happening again
using this crescent wrench so it's nice
and tight I like it perpendicular but
there's nothing that says that you have
to do that once assembled your saddle
pipe is going to look like this of
course with the pipe going right in
there when choosing a location to put
your saddle valve consider that in case
anything leaks you want to be able to
shut off the supply to it so you want to
probably put it past a shutoff valve you
don't want to go too far away from the
hot water heater so we're going to
choose a location somewhere right here
so here's the saddle valve secured make
sure it's not over tightened it's not
squeezing the pipe you don't want to
deform the pipe with a saddle valve now
we can easily move the water supply for
the humidifier from the cold water to
the hot water simply by shutting off the
saddle valve and then disconnecting the
supply we then move it over and insert
it into our saddle valve and tighten it
with our adjustable range after we make
sure that the compression fitting
connection you just made is good pierce
the pipe by twisting the valve all the
way in and then turning it back halfway
you can now check that the water flows
and you're done